fix: improve the new procedure for calculating Che resources (#2579)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/pages/calculating-che-resource-requirements.adoc

The {prod-short} Operator, {devworkspace} Controller, and user workspaces consist of a set of pods.
The pods contribute to the resource consumption in CPU and memory limits and requests.

.Procedure

. Identify the workspace resource requirements which depend on the devfile that is used for defining the development environment. This includes identifying the workspace components explicitly specified in the `components` section of the devfile.

> ** To learn how to calculate resources such as memory and CPU that are required to run one workspace, you can examine the linked link:https://github.com/che-incubator/quarkus-api-example/blob/main/devfile.yaml[example devfile] and identify the following components in it:

Reviewer: let's leave the original wording `To illustrate the procedure a specific link:https://github.com/che-incubator/quarkus-api-example/blob/main/devfile.yaml[devfile] will be used for calculating the resource requirements`

Author: Then the original wording needs some improvement:

`To illustrate the procedure` is self-referential text that our stye guide, IBM Style, asks us to avoid:

`will be used for calculating the resource requirements` is passive voice:

Reviewer: we can probably change it to smth like `A specific devfile will be used as an example for calculating the resource requirements`

Author: @ibuziuk, WDYT? 
```suggestion
** Here is an link:https://github.com/che-incubator/quarkus-api-example/blob/main/devfile.yaml[example devfile] with the following components:
```

Reviewer: LGTM

+
.`tools`
====
The `tools` component of the devfile defines the following requests and limits:

[source,yaml,subs="+attributes,+quotes,macros"]
----
    memoryLimit: 6G
    memoryRequest: 512M
    cpuRequest: 1000m
    cpuLimit: 4000m
----
====
+
.`postgresql`
====
The `postgresql` component does not define any requests and limits and therefore falls back on the defaults for the dedicated container:

[source,yaml,subs="+attributes,+quotes,macros"]
----
    memoryLimit: 128M
    memoryRequest: 64M
    cpuRequest: 10m
    cpuLimit: 1000m
----

> ====

Reviewer: LGTM

Author: ACK. Thank you.

The {prod-short} Operator, {devworkspace} Controller, and user workspaces consist of a set of pods.
The pods contribute to the resource consumption in CPU and memory limits and requests.

> To learn how to calculate resources such as memory and CPU that are required to run {prod}, you can use a provided example devfile.

Reviewer: Moving it below makes it less-straight forward since you need devfile to calculate only workspace req

.Prerequisites

> * You have downloaded the link:https://github.com/che-incubator/quarkus-api-example/blob/main/devfile.yaml[example devfile].

Reviewer: we do not need to download devfile, please do not add steps that are not needed, this makes the procedure less straight-forward

Author: Let's look at it as a reader.
Why do we need this URL?
What am I supposed to do with this URL as a reader who reads this?
Do you want the readers to open this file in the browser and inspect it?

Reviewer: yes, I expect the reader to open the devfile in the browser, take a look at the repo on GitHub and use it as an example for calculating the resource requirements for a particular application

+

> IMPORTANT: The previous link is a pointer to material from the upstream community. This material represents the very latest available content and the most recent best practices. These tips have not yet been vetted by Red Hat's QE department, and they have not yet been proven by a wide user group. Please, use this information cautiously. It is best used for educational and 'developmental' purposes rather than 'production' purposes.

Reviewer: I do not understand why we need this warning

Author: This has been discussed on Slack.

> IMPORTANT: The previous link is a pointer to material from the upstream community. This material represents the very latest available content and the most recent best practices. These tips have not yet been vetted by Red Hat's QE department, and they have not yet been proven by a wide user group. Please, use this information cautiously. It is best used for educational and 'developmental' purposes rather than 'production' purposes.

Author: ```suggestion
```

    cpuLimit: 500m
----

> . Calculate the sums of the resources required for each workspace.

Author: ```suggestion
. Calculate the sums of the resources required for each workspace. If you intend to use multiple devfiles, repeat this calculation for every expected devfile.
```

Reviewer: LGTM

|`postgresql`
|128 MiB
|64 MiB

> |1000 m

Reviewer: this and below figures have been fixed as part of https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2578/files, no?

Author: :) Yes, and I started working on fixing these here before you opened https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2578, and I used this branch when reviewing your PR. This PR just needs rebasing now that you've prioritized merging https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2578 that I merged.

>s|5500 m
>s|1060 m
|===
====

. Multiply the resources calculated per workspace by the number of workspaces that you expect all of your users to run simultaneously.

> 

Reviewer: original version is better and more clear imo

Author: @ibuziuk, I'm proposing this edit because in the original version, we've already calculated the sums in the previous step ("2. Calculate the total:"), where we also made the table:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/78564304/228905129-51a40a98-7c29-4cf2-b093-b99fb7b131af.png)

Reviewer: yeah, I do not understand what is wrong with the original version, which is clear and straight-forward

Author: The question is if `calculate the total` and `sum up the resources required for each workspace` are separate and different actions. Or are they the same action, and we're asking the reader to perform the same action twice in two steps?

Reviewer: well, there could be multiple devfiles, so you need to repeat the procedure for each devfile

Author: > well, there could be multiple devfiles, so you need to repeat the procedure for each devfile

@ibuziuk, it seems this is already mentioned in step 1: "_Identify the workspace resource requirements which depend on the devfile that is used for defining the development environment._"

But to make it even more obvious, I'm making a suggestion to update the previous step too:
https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2579/files#r1158688768

> . Calculate the sums of the requirements for the {prod-short} Operator, Operands, and {devworkspace} Controller.

Reviewer: this part is ok, but I'm not sure what is bad with the current wording

Author: @ibuziuk, I'm afraid we can't use `sum up` when talking about arithmetic operations here because `sum up` usually means something else: https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/sum-up

Reviewer: ok, let's use the new version
